Hey there, welcome to the Posit Data Science Hangout. I'm Libby Heron, and this is a recording
of our weekly community call that happens every Thursday at 12 p.m. U.S. Eastern Time.
If you are not joining us live, you miss out on the amazing chat that's going on. So find
the link in the description where you can add our call to your calendar and come hang
out with the most supportive, friendly, and funny data community you'll ever experience.
Can't wait to see you there.
I am so excited to introduce our guest today, Jenny Bryan, Senior Software Engineer here
at Posit. Jenny, thank you so much for being with us here today. I would love it if you
could introduce yourself, tell us a little bit about what you do, and something you like
to do for fun outside of work.
Thank you for inviting me, talking me into it, and for all of you folks to show up. I
feel like I've been a little bit hermit-y ever since COVID, and so this is a bit of
a starting to do more things like this again for me. So I have been at Posit, or previously
RStudio, since 2017, working for the most of those years as someone who helps maintain
packages in the tidyverse, among other things. And I co-authored the second edition of R
Packages with Hadley, and I give talks and workshops. So those are sort of the things
I do. But for the past, I guess, about two years, I've been part of a small chunk of
the tidyverse team that's been lent out substantially to the Positron team, so the folks developing
this new IDE. So still working some on R Packages, but frankly, a lot less than previously and
spending more time on things Positron-related. And I think another relevant thing, if we
end up going in career directions, is that before this, I was a professor at the University
of British Columbia in statistics. And then before that, I worked in management consulting.
So I feel like I'm kind of on a third career, and I have definitely taken the scenic route
to what I do now, which is, you know, I think overall very good. But then it also gives you
some like, oh, I'd be better at this now if I had done it, and only this for 30 years or so.
But that's a basic overview. Yeah.
What about something you like to do for fun outside of data work?
I knit. I guess that's one of my, that's a big hobby of mine that's come and gone over the
years. But I think I live in Canada, but I am originally from the US. And somehow my reaction
to the past several years in the US has been to knit more to get my mind off of things and do
like soothing, repetitive tasks that have a tangible output. And like, that's like linear
effort in, results out. Yeah, you need that. That's also a good counterbalance to coding,
I think. Like that you can, with knitting, you can be fairly sure that the amount of time
you put in is reflected in some sort of physical object, which is really nice.
Yes, we have a, we have a question from Nicholas in the chat that says,
is that a wooble on your desk? Woobles are actually crocheted. And so that is a
knitted item that Jenny has.
No, this is a gnome that I made, part of a limited series. So yeah, I don't know how to crochet,
really. I fake it in very limited quantities, but more of a knitter.
Yep, same idea.
You will find that our data community is full of knitters, crocheters, and sewists.
We, it's all math, right? And so it's like this wonderful, soothing, tangible math project.
Yes.
There's so much counting in knitting, y'all. If you're not a knitter, so much counting.
All right, Jenny. Well, I want to give everybody a little bit of context
so that they can ask good questions. We want to have a great conversation today.
So I will remind you, if you, if you saw online our sort of little like blurb about what we can
talk to Jenny about today, I would like to read it back. So Jenny is open to chatting about
adapting your career to embrace change and new technologies.
I don't know about anybody else, but I struggle with change immensely.
Also the behind the scenes technical advancements that are sort of
empowering the R ecosystem with tools like Positron, Arc, and Air.
I just discovered Air this week. My life will never be the same. I'm so excited and thankful
for it. And then also demystifying project-based workflows and the evolving notion of projecthood.
We all know Jenny in terms of project-based workflows, a lot of us do, and sort of being
a champion of that type of work. But the notion of what a project is as we were moving into a
little bit of a Positron era is shifting for a lot of people, or maybe it can feel uncomfortable.
We are missing the .rproj file in Positron. A lot of people are worried about that. And so
these are all questions that we can cover with Jenny today. Now we already have four questions
in Slido. As a reminder, Rachel just put the Slido link in there. Questions go in Slido.
So I would love to get started here. Let's see. I would love Arsenis to get us started,
actually. Arsenis, you always ask the best questions. If you're available to unmute and
ask to that. Hi, that'd be great. Hi, Libby. Thank you so much for that compliment. Thank
you, Jenny, for joining us today. And thank all you Posit folks for running this as usual. But
my question is pretty simple, I think. Jenny, as a builder of the tools that data scientists use,
right, I'm wondering if you have any insight into how you see the demand kind of shaping up
in terms of the tools that data scientists now want to use most. For example, when RStudio came
out, like the being able to see your environment while you were coding was a huge thing. And then
the viewer was another big thing. So what are some of the things that you see really kind of being
asked for a lot or kind of building a lot of demand for?
LLMs. Everyone wants to be able to get the LLM of choice in their brain and like focused on their
problem and contributing ideas or code. That's what it feels like to me. Like the thing, the main
thing that comes to mind is that that, you know, is just like totally table stakes for any tool.
For any tool that if there is any LLM relevance, people want it and they want it like yesterday.
That's the first thing that comes to mind.
And then I guess because I mostly think about Positron these days,
you know, just like helping people create and maintain like very healthy like environments.
You know, having different, the different tools that they work together, play nicely together,
it's easy to like stand something up and getting it, the whole system working well together. But
that's always been true. But I feel like especially now that I'm working on an IDE that serves Positron
as, sorry, Python as much as R, I'm much more exposed to like the problems of Python people,
which definitely includes standing up environments constantly. And so then I'm also like thinking
about that more for R users as well, just because it like simply comes up more in a polyglot user
base. Awesome. Thank you for the great question, Arsena, to get us started. I would like to ask
I would like to ask a question because it's something that I've been thinking about a lot
with Positron and it is just the adapting to change part. Like has, have you experienced
needing to adapt to change recently and how have you embraced it? Because especially with LLMs
being a topic, I am an LLM curmudgeon and I'm having a hard time adapting. Give us some wisdom
there. Well, so sometimes crying helps. I like definitely when I first started working on
Positron and I'm not just trying to like be funny. Like I had multiple episodes of just like
sobbing and frustration. And, but I was comforted by the fact that someone named Brian Lambert,
who's also on the team, who was there much ahead of me and works more on like user interface front
end stuff and not, not so much on our stuff. But he shared that he too had cried multiple
times about the project because it's a very challenging code base to get to know, even if
you are already fluent and all of the technologies involved, which I most definitely was not and
arguably still am not. So like it's just plain hard and whatever you need for emotional catharsis
and that might be sobbing occasionally helps. But it is true that like the LLM, the relevance of LLMs
has changed dramatically over the course of those two years, like really dramatically. And so
I think I, I both got more competent and I got more comfortable with being uncomfortable, but also
the ability now to chat with CoPilot or let Cloud Code fly on something has helped immensely
at like feeling like I can make a little more progress quickly or like see something that works.
And even though it might not be the way I want to do it, it like proved to me it's possible
and like, here's, it gives me something to shoot at, a critique or whatever. So, early on in the
LLM hype cycle, I mean, we're still like massively in the hype cycle. I was super skeptical because
I was like, I can write R code much better than this thing can, like much better.
But my attitude changed a lot when I applied it to problems where I need to write Rust or TypeScript,
which I'm substantially less good at. And certainly in the case of TypeScript, LLMs are really good at.
And so I think part of one's skepticism about using these tools can also come from like, well,
how much are you expanding your comfort zone? It's like, if you stay in your comfort zone,
the relative gain might be small, depending on what your comfort zone is. And so I think
one way to use them, or at least to understand why other people are using them, is that they
are getting outside of their comfort zone more often. And then having this tool that helps
explain code to you or helps generate code to you and like, you know, there are better and worse
ways of using it, is a real accelerant. And so sometimes I think skepticism comes from a place
of, you're not using it on the same types of problems or in the same way that the enthusiasts
are. And either you might want to think about that, or at least that helps you understand why
they're so excited about it and you're not. And also I should say, I've been given permission
to not look at the chat and not look at the chat, but I've been given permission to not look at the
I should say, I've been given permission to not look at the chat and not look at the side.
I'm literally just looking at your faces. And, you know, if I'm ignoring some theme or whatever,
I'm assuming it's going to bubble to the top in some other way.
Well, I will tell you that the chat is saying that they love your honesty. I think that a lot
of the sort of hype cycle that we see on LinkedIn and on Blue Sky and all that stuff, and Andrew is
saying like, yep, yep, honesty, good. I think that we often just see people either being really
upset about it or really excited about it. And there's not really a middle ground that's
acknowledging that this change is a little weird and, you know, and change is hard in general.
So I think that that's, that's wonderful. That's the general vibe I'm getting from the chat right
now. As a reminder to the chat, if you have just popped in, our questions are being asked in Slido
today. So ask your questions in Slido so that we can, we can answer them. I have a wonderful
question from Zach. Zach is one of our regulars who always asks good stuff and there's an asterisk,
so I will ask it for him. And I, I was going to ask Jenny this anyway. He's saying, um,
I see some posts on Blue Sky about Jenny setting laptops on fire. What is that about? And then
a serious question. How did you decide to change your career a few times? So let's start with
Laptop on Fire. Jenny, how did you, did you expect that to go as viral as it, as it went?
I did not. I did not. And I still think overall it, it has been a good thing.
It's not universally good, but what happened is I gave a talk in New Zealand.
And it had a lot of, like, workflow and process stuff in there. And I had
two slides that were very provocative. Like, one was, you know, if I open up your project and I see,
like, set working directory, blah, blah, blah, I will set your, come to your office and set your
laptop on fire. And the other one is if I, the top of your script is rm list equals ls. Okay, so,
and Hadley took photos of those two slides and tweeted them. And this was, you know,
back in the heyday of rstats Twitter. And yeah, people lost their ever loving mind. Like,
it was very, very upsetting or yeah, reactions all over the place, but definitely a reaction.
And so I then felt the need to write a blog post about, like, clarifying what I was talking about.
And so that's this blog post called, like, Project Oriented Workflow, I think.
And every time we look at the analytics for the Tidyverse blog, that thing is doing numbers to
this day. Like, it's incredible. So I had no idea when I wrote that, that it would
attract as many eyeballs. But I think part of the reason why the people had such a strong reaction,
both, you know, negative and positive, is it can really feel like a real attack, a personal attack
on one's code. And so that was the part that I think is regrettable. But it got people's
attention. And so part of I think what, you know, is upsetting or about that type of provocative
way of stating things is it feels like someone's taking away a piece of my workflow that's actually
super important. And they haven't told me what I could do instead. So that's really what the
blog post was about. Because I, too, used to do both of these things, because I felt like it was,
like, the only way to, like, pivot my attention from one project to another or, like, build
paths that worked for me in the next five minutes. And so I think the important thing about
what I was able to explain in the blog post is I do want to take those habits away from you.
I stand by that. But it is important to, like, acknowledge they're solving a very real problem.
I just think there's a better solution to those problems. And, you know, the one about not clearing
your workspace all the time is, like, every time you clear the workspace, it's a pretty good sign
that you should at least just be restarting R. Or you should be, like, switching your attention to
a different instance of RStudio or to a different window of Positron. It's that those are better
ways of sort of pivoting your attention from one project to another or sort of power cycling an
existing project. And then the issue about paths is that you want your projects to travel
gracefully across space and time. And so you want to build project paths relative to the project.
And we have better tools for that as well. And I think the here package is a great
implementation of that. You don't need to use it, but it can help tremendously.
My dogs are trying to get in, and hopefully they will not, but...
That's okay. We can't hear anything. I promise. Zoom does a really good job of filtering stuff
out. Well, maybe we can cover really quickly. Zach did have a second question in there,
which was how did you decide to change your career a few times? Because you're on a third career.
Okay. So I was a statistics professor, but, like, even in grad school, it was very apparent to me
that I really enjoyed any sort of software development and was, like,
less excited about proving theorems and did, like, the bare minimum of the math part
and, like, way more than the minimum of the programming part. And you can navigate through
statistics academia that way, but you'll never be regarded as, like, truly awesome
unless you're Hadley, but then he left academia, too. And then that theme just, like, carried on
throughout my entire statistics career. I did manage to get tenure. I was an associate professor
by continuing to do, like, a ton of data analysis, actually is what I mostly did,
some working on tools for data analysis, but really more just doing data analysis
and the amount of mathematical work kind of necessary to make sure I was sort of clearing
various bars. So once I got tenure, I decided to the way I was going to implement the freedom
that that gave me was to totally focus on software because I was, like, I don't feel
bad about this. I feel like it's professionally, like, ethically okay. It means no one will regard
me as just killing it in my job, but they will certainly tolerate me. And then I, like,
either that's just the way it'll be, like, maybe I'll never be promoted to full, but I'll be happy
doing my software development work, or maybe it will give me the chance to go do that for real
somewhere. And then I was lucky that the latter came true. And so when Hadley first
started building, got to build a Tidyverse team, I was able to come join that along
with, you know, a couple other people around the same time.
And then that felt great. It feels so great when doing what you really want to do and where you
think your comparative advantage lies actually aligns with what your, like, job description is.
That's been amazing. You don't have to have that in your life because I was willing to just
play my cards the way I wanted to in academia and not worry about the misalignment, and which
sometimes that's just what you need to do, but it is really awesome when you can get those things
aligned. I agree. If you possibly can, definitely do it. Thank you, Zach, for that amazing question
that opened up so much conversation with Jenny. And I had a question in Slido. Let me go find it.
Where did it go? Wow. We have so many questions in Slido. We're not going to be able to get to
them all today, but that's okay. Let's try. This one's from Jacob. Jacob Lackey. Are you
available to ask your question live? Yes, I am. Hey, go ahead. Hey, Jenny.
So I work on a people data analytics team in the healthcare industry, and we've got about
five people in total. And right now we're kind of fragmented between using R and Python in terms
of coding. I've been trying to convince the team to switch everybody over to Python
just for consistency purposes. And I'm just curious, what are your thoughts on the ease of
putting models into production in Python versus R? And does it make sense to shift everybody
to one language or the other? I feel like I'm not a great person to answer this, and this,
I guess, from two perspectives. First of all, I'm a diehard R fan, so I'm going to say,
no, you should be getting, if standardization is your goal,
get them all to use R. I realize that may not be practical, and that's definitely
me being a big booster of R. I think you have to do whatever makes sense for your team.
So I certainly can say that within the Tidyverse team, for example, we do really try to standardize
our practices for doing certain things and enshrine that in tools because it removes decision
fatigue. It creates consistency that when you need to go drop in on somebody else's project,
you know where the bathroom is. You don't walk in and you're like, what the heck is going on here?
So I think having at least deliberate choices about when we're consistent and when we allow
people to follow their heart does make a lot of sense. And then I definitely am not the person
to talk to about putting models in production. I'm going to refer that to Julia Silgi or
other people. I'm definitely like, that's outside of my wheelhouse.
Yeah, that's fine. I'm proficient with both R and Python, but you're saying either one of the
other is good, right? Regardless of the language. I think so. And then I think, you know, it's going
to depend on your group whether you want to sort of standardize on one or the other. Certainly,
I would say that Posit is all in on building a tooling ecosystem that should make it very easy
for individual people or individual teams to use a lot of both.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for the great question, Jacob.
I saw one from Sam and Sam had an asterisk, which in case anybody doesn't know, you can always put
an asterisk in your question. That's sort of a little unspoken rule we have here if you want
me to ask it for you. And Sam asks, how do you navigate the law of the instrument,
law of the instrument in quotations here, when working with emerging tools like LLMs? I've
noticed parallels with Shiny where it sometimes gets applied to problems that it might not be
best suited for. So how do you balance enthusiasm for new tools with thoughtful tool selection?
All right. I have to confess, I don't know what the law of the instrument is. If so,
if anyone... Neither do I. Somebody put that in the chat for us. Sam, help us out.
Yeah. I'll vamp for a bit, but maybe someone can supply that. Like, I guess my main response to
this is I think it, I think LLMs are like a chainsaw. Like, it really is very easy to like,
open an artery and just like, to use it either on something that you shouldn't,
or I'm less worried about that, but to like, trust it too much. Yeah. Do we have an answer
that might help? We do. It's the, when you have a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. So I will just say that I try to be just super bossy with LLMs,
and very critical of their output. So I've only done something that I would say was vibe-coded
once. So I much more ask very targeted questions, and I'm pretty willing to be like,
are you sure? Or like, this doesn't make sense to me. Or just start the conversation over if
we've gotten to some local minimum, like, of quality. So I don't know. That's my main answer
is they are super helpful, but yeah, sometimes it's also true that you need to just back out
and think about the problem yourself. But I think if you use LLMs in that way, like you really think
about your prompt, you really think about the context, and you really critique each answer,
they end up acting like a giant rubber duck. And so, and that can be very healthy, because it's
making you articulate, this is my problem. These are the constraints. I want it to look consistent
with this code base. I'm worried about building a very inefficient solution or something like that.
But like forcing you to say those things actually forces you to think those things. So I think
certain types of habits in your LLM use can actually force you to refine your own thinking,
whereas before you might have just started coding, right? So I think there are ways
to use them that keep your brain like plugged in.
I agree. Kylie in the chat says, I use an LLM as a critical colleague.
Yeah. And I like that a lot. And somebody else says that it's a non-critical rubber duck.
Or a colleague to critique.
Yeah. Oh, gosh, well.
Also, yeah. I'm like, are you sure? Or I'm like, I don't like the way you did such and such,
fix that. And you know, just you can be bossy in ways that you would not be with an actual colleague.
Yeah. And a lot of times it's not going to listen to you anyway.
True.
This week I was like, no, use this function. And it was like, no, no, no, I'm not going to
use that function. I'm going to use one that doesn't exist. And I'm like, no, really use the
function. That's what I'm trying to write.
Yes. Thank you so much, Sam, for that fantastic question. And the next one that I have on my
radar here is an anonymous one. I will read it for our wonderful anonymous asker. It says,
I've found myself leaning towards development and software engineering within my data science role,
but I have no formal software engineering experience or education.
So do you have any general advice for those data scientists who find themselves
wanting to maybe branch out more into software engineering, but don't have the formal training?
Well, that definitely describes me, not having formal training.
And so I think that the steps and it will, yeah, I have, I actually had a segment in a talk
once that showed that like cake fails photo, right, of someone making like a beautiful cake
that looked like a hedgehog in a woodland, right. And then there was, you know, and here's my
version and it's just this like brown blob with like pretzel sticks sticking out of it, you know.
And the theme of that is this phrase that like your taste develops much faster than your ability.
So once you decide like, hey, I'm really into software development,
then you start looking at your own code and you're like, God, that's just so awful.
And so then how do you like start making forward progress again?
So I definitely went through this. I think I continue to go through this.
So reading, really reading the code of people whose work you respect
is the number one thing that changed how I wrote code.
Number one, so like actually reading a lot of source code written by someone who you admire.
It has helped, of course, a lot. Like once I joined RStudio and I was part of it,
I was part of the Tidyverse team, getting code review from people whose code you admire
and just being able to take the feedback without feeling crushed or whatever.
Of course, that, you know, highly benefits from having,
you know, well-wishing, polite people to do that.
So reading other people's code, really inviting people, if you can, to review your code.
Another early thing I did was, you know, just starting to write packages,
just like forcing myself to do it, even though I was kind of embarrassed by some of the internals.
But like pushing some small project to completion instead of getting stuck on,
oh, this isn't perfect, this isn't right. But I'm like, well, it behaves right.
I think what's inside is kind of gross in many ways, but it has the correct behavior.
And slowly leveling up the internals, maybe by starting all over.
And often finding those little projects that you can just force yourself to complete is much easier
if you allow yourself to do something kind of recreational.
Because it feels like the stakes are lower and it feels less awful to make mistakes or to feel like,
oh, the internals are kind of gross. But if it's a package, you know, to analyze your Spotify list,
like, I mean, the stakes are low anyway, so that's fine. But so sometimes finding
a project that's like interesting enough to you personally that you want to do it,
but it's also silly enough that it's fine if it's not perfect, can be very good for getting unblocked.
Yeah, and then like hanging out in places where people talk about code,
like RStats Twitter was good for that. But I think you can find Slack communities for that,
following certain hashtags, following the GitHub repositories of packages you care about,
and like really listening to what do people talk about? What do pull request reviews look like?
There's a lot of people who work in the open, and you can lurk in lots of situations where
sort of people you admire are talking in detail about code and refining things and
working out disagreements and can sort of learn a lot just by watching that happen,
even if you don't work on that team or whatever. Those are a few ideas.
Those are great ideas. I encourage everybody, actually, if you ever feel intimidated about
the people who build the tools that you use, like go check out GitHub issues on like-
Watch them work.
Dplyr. Yeah, yeah. Go look at Hadley trying to figure out the name for purr,
like suggesting a bunch of things that were not purr that were wild.
They work out loud and in the open. There's no secrets there, so go check those out.
Thank you so much for the wonderful question, Anonymous Asker. There are also a couple of
replies on your question in Slido if you want to go check those out. There are some people
saying that they feel the same, although I'm marking this as answered now, so it's going to
go away. All right, I saw a great question from Rodrigo, and I believe Rodrigo says that,
yep.
Yep.
Lady, can you ask this for me? Awesome. The question is, why should I learn Positron
instead of VS Code?
Oh, because if you like having an interactive REPL right there, for example, like so the R
console that you can send code to, I guess this is possible in VS Code, but involves like a lot
more fragile setup on your part. So having that be a just basic core feature of the IDE for a
practicing data scientist who uses R or Python or R and Python, I think that's huge. Like the way
the console is feature one in Positron, then I think also after that comes things like the
environments pane, the plots pane, like all the sort of data science specific tooling that's just
the core product as opposed to things you might need to sort of configure and get working together
on one day and then sort of actively maintain to keep them all playing nicely together. I think
those are the main reasons for Positron over VS Code. My colleague Davis is here, who was also
seconded to the Positron team with me. Do you have anything else that you think?
We should add. Did you mention the data explorer? Did I hear that?
I was just going to say data explorer. Oh, okay. Yeah. So having, you know,
once you've got a data frame in one of your R or Python sessions and you have a way to like
fling it into this data explorer through different gestures and look at it like it's a spreadsheet,
um, which can be super handy. You know, the way I use it is when what few data science tasks I
still do is frequently I need that kind of tangibility to write my code or to figure out
why my data wrangling code isn't working and can use that sort of spreadsheet to like stare at the
data or like get a few rows at the top that I feel like are causing me problems to better create my
code. Yeah. And I feel like each of those elements is like sort of possible in VS Code,
but it's like a lot more janky and it's a lot more on you to get individual extensions or things
working together. But yeah, when I see these questions, when Positron is discussed in places
I'm like, Jess, why didn't you just use VS Code? I'm like, are you serious? That's like my actual
response to that because I'm like, it is so different. So it usually tells me like this
person doesn't do a ton of data science or they're like completely notebook focused
and they're getting all that stuff sort of from notebooks and they don't understand,
they don't know what they don't know, is my reaction when I see comments like that. I'm like,
that tells me that you've never worked in this way and experienced how awesome it is.
So that's like, you know, that could be a slightly obnoxious answer, but I'm always
like actually really surprised by that. We don't feel like you are obnoxious,
Rodrigo. Okay. We really love you asking. No, my answer might be obnoxious, but I do think it's,
it's a good question though. It comes from, and this is totally me and I could be
undereducated about it, but I think it comes from like, I think notebooks are so popular in Python
partially because there wasn't like an RStudio type thing, but people still wanted the interactivity
and so that problem got solved in a different way, but I still think the way we do it in R
and RStudio is extremely relevant to Python and it's pretty different from what you can do in VS
Code or you can, you can do it better in Positron than in VS Code, I think. Yeah. And a lot of times
some of the people that I've talked to who asked this question already have a really, really
customized VS Code setup and they're, they're like, oh, well you can do that in VS Code with
an extension and they're just kind of not thinking that, oh, I've spent the past five or six years
customizing my VS Code. Rigging those. Yeah. And really rigging it to work for me. Yeah. Whereas
with Positron, there might be some differences, but it's kind of right out of the box. And one
thing that as an educator, I have really enjoyed is I can get someone set up in Positron fairly
quickly and they have all the same functionality out of the box that I do. I don't have to like
teach them how to go search for the extensions that are going to specifically solve their
niche problems. Everything is just there for them. It's amazing. Yeah. So if someone has crafted
a system for themselves over the years, you know, the value proposition might be lower,
but there's a whole bunch of people for whom it is super compelling.
I agree. All right. Well, let's move on. Rodrigo, thank you so much for asking that
brilliant question that we were all sort of wondering as well. And I saw a question from
Dami, my buddy, Dami. Dami, are you available to ask your question live? Of course.
All right. Let's do it. It was one about happy Git and the GitHub user for R, I think.
Oh, wait, let me, how do you find questions? Okay. I'm going to highlight your question. So
it's going to pop up to the top and I will also stick it in the chat.
So Jenny, I would just ask a question. Happy Git is like one of the things that saved me the
most when I was in grad school. Like I read it religiously. I gave it to everyone. I printed it
out. And I'm always like amazed how much I come back to it, like even like five years from now.
Can you tell me like how you write like technical documents? Like how do you like view the audience?
Like do you, how do you gauge the skill levels? And do you have any tips on how to like, you know,
talk about these kinds of really technical questions or technical skills to like non-technical
audiences? Oh, one like principle that like definitely comes to mind for me is
if there's something I needed to know to work, it needs to be in the talk or the book or the
post or the docs. And if there's something I have never needed to know, it does not need to be there.
And that's like super clarifying because I think often when you write docs or books or articles or
whatever, it's so easy to be like, you pull way back and you're like, let's start at the very
beginning. And you go off and like do research on things that like you've never actually needed
to know. And like, if you're writing, you know, the definitive account of something,
you do need to do that. But most people don't want to read the definitive account of things.
And so I kind of feel like if there's something that you've never needed to know, let's say about
Git, since that's what we're talking about, and you operate like at a pretty high level in Git for
10 years, it's pretty safe that you don't need to mention it now, or at least you have the permission
to not mention it now. And likewise, there's often gross little moves that you need to make that
actually help in your daily life, but they feel like too small a detail to mention, or it's
embarrassing that you do this. And then I'm like, no, if it's like some move that you need to make,
if it's like some move that you need to make on a regular basis, even if it feels inelegant,
you should probably write about it, because it's friction that actual people do encounter.
So letting your own experience of a tool, giving yourself permission to like actually
write about it that way. So a lot of what's in HappyGit, like the way the website came about is
back in my prof days, we would drag classes of 100 or more people every semester through the
fun experience of getting Git and GitHub set up. And so we ended up with this just like battle-tested
set of instructions and a very good list of like problems that people have. And then we turned
that just sort of collective, like super painfully gained wisdom into that resource.
And then I think another phrase that's really helpful comes from Greg Wilson of Software
Carpentry, which is never let truth get in the way of clarity. Like letting yourself write things
sometimes that are not like absolutely, totally, completely pedantically true, but it's like,
it's the truth that actually matters. That can also be very freeing to write things that are like,
reasonably short, readable, and will work for most people most of the time,
but, you know, is glossing over some technicality or something like that. So those are some
principles that I think about when I'm like, how should I write about this? I sort of
think about those sorts of things.
Thank you. Great question, Dami. We have all really benefited from all of Jenny's technical
writing for audiences, technical and not, because a lot of us educators are also using that to teach
other people and we're so grateful it exists. I had a question come in from John Harmon,
who was going to hop in halfway through the call. And I believe, John, you are here now.
Would you like to unmute and ask your question? And I think it will cover some other questions
that we had in Slido that are on the same topic, actually. I think John can't talk right now,
so you might need to. Oh, John, that's okay. I can ask it for you. John says that he is really
interested in hearing how you use Positron for R package development. And if you have things that
you sort of miss from RStudio, or things that you really, really love about Positron that RStudio
can't do, he says Positron still breaks his kind of ingrained package dev workflow too much
right now, but it's possible he just needs to push through and make the switch. So I do all of my
package development in Positron now. It is, yeah, safe to say there's, I think it's okay,
approximately true that there's nothing about RStudio that I miss in package development.
The one thing maybe is I still have, like, almost all my vignettes are in R Markdown.
And so RMarkdown workflows are a little better in RStudio versus Positron. But, like, the way I'm
going to tackle that is gradually to convert my vignettes to Corto vignettes, which is fully
supported by the ecosystem now. But so otherwise, so if he wants to elaborate somewhere that people
can see it on, like, what is sort of tripping him up, that would be interesting to talk about.
Of course, I'm biased because, like, what I've actually worked on in Positron is, you know,
a fair amount of it has been package development stuff. So obviously, if there was something I
thought was gross or missing, I would have worked on it. But, you know, we're still constantly having
to, like, prioritize things. And there are known problems that simply haven't risen to the top of
the list yet. Something that I do really like and that I've worked on that also admittedly still
needs more work is the test explorer in Positron is legitimately something that exists in Positron
for package development that does – there is no equivalent in RStudio. So when you
test your R package in Positron through command control shift T, which is the shortcut lots of
us have associated with it, or using the command in the command palette, it runs your tests not
through DevTools test in the console, but through this test explorer, which has its own
view over in the sidebar, which I think is very cool. There are obvious improvements that still
need to be made, but I already think even this first iteration is, like, a pretty nifty step
forward in being able to run tests selectively and to sort of see your failures and successes
in a very navigable way. But yeah, I don't – did he elaborate on specifics that are
tricky? Okay. I do not – I do not – oh, wait, wait. There is something in the chat here. John
says, I haven't tried again super recently, but kept running into annoyances last time I tried.
I switch over if I have GitHub merge conflicts, but so far that's the only thing that brings me
over. I'm guessing brings me over to Positron because working out Git merge conflicts in
Positron is so much easier than in our studio. That's very true. Yeah. But we can move on. We
only have seven minutes left, so let's hop on over. There was a question from Adrian in the Slido
that I wanted to point out has some really good replies to it in Slido. In Slido, there's a little
view replies button. And Adrian, if you are available and wanted to ask your question
live, you definitely could, and I can call out some of the helpful replies as well.
Hi. Yeah. Hi. So, thank you, Jenny, for doing this talk. You're definitely a legend in this
community. It's really great to hear from you. Thanks. I am like now at the point where I'm like
at the base of the mountain of like developing my first R package. And like I conceptually get
that like it's a great thing to do to like hone your skills and even add to like a
personal portfolio. But it just feels like there's so much upfront work that like to your
kind of like knitting thing, like there's just nothing. There's just so much at the front end
that you don't see it. And it just feels like so overwhelming sometimes. So, could you maybe speak
to like the value that you see in it and like ways that you can maybe kind of clear that mental
hurdle and feel like you're going to get some value from it? Well, I highly recommend doing
like a speed run to some micro package that fully works as one function. But it has a website.
That function is tested. Like that is a vastly better way to move forward than writing tons
and tons of R code. You know, I've written 20 functions and they all live in like something.r
and I source them. I'm going to turn that into a pack. Well, actually, you could turn that into
a package. But I would still recommend create the package, bring one function in, and get it
documented, tested, create the website, like get the whole little ecosystem working, and then
port your second function over. And this is for a variety of reasons. But first of all,
it's like super motivating. Like the first time you see a help topic that you wrote in the help
pane, that feels so great. Like that's like the package development equivalent of making your
first ggplot. It feels tremendous. And then the first time you see that on the web, as part of
your packages, like package down site, also super motivating. Okay, so like, whereas if you just like
hone one function over and over and over again, that just feels like that's what you've always
been doing. So getting the whole little thing working is very motivating. And also, you're going
to make mistakes along the way. And if you're, if you're getting the documentation to work, you're
running our command check, you're making the website, you're pushing, you catch those little
mistakes like right away. And since you've only changed like four lines of code in the past hour,
it's like pretty clear where you made your mistake, and you can solve them. So and then you
learn and you don't make that mistake again. Whereas if you write all your functions, and then
you're like, Okay, I'm now I'm going to write all the tests, writing the tests will teach you that
some of your functions weren't really designed well. And then it just feels like a giant headache.
And it's like super easy to get demotivated. So that's my main advice. And so the R packages book
has a chapter towards the beginning called the whole game. And it speed runs creating an entire
package, like setting it up on GitHub off all of it with like one very silly function.
So I would recommend doing that or doing that with your own one silly function
as like the way to sort of get unblocked. And then once you have something that works,
it feels great to like, all right, I'm going to add, I'm going to add one new feature.
And it feels very doable. Adrienne, message me on LinkedIn, too. I'll send you my notes. I took a
one day package, fundamental package of fundamental course at PositConf. And I still have my notes.
I'm happy to share those with you. Also, you can make a data package where you're just packaging
a bit of data. That's really easier than, you know, I have this whole package. That's a great
idea. Yeah, you could totally do that. Thank you for the fantastic question. I love it so much.
I know that we are sort of at the end here. I wanted to sort of ask you a career advice
question. I know that Dan had asked one. Maybe Dan can hop in and ask his question.
And then we can wrap up really quickly. Dan, are you available to ask?
I'm assuming you mean me. Yeah, Daniel. Sorry.
Yes. You're here in Vancouver. I am here. We're like kind of neighbors.
Yeah, the question is about your career story is around being an individual contributor
and doing the actual software engineering. You hear a lot from just people like you
either have two paths. You're either an IC or a manager. And I guess the question is,
what does your career trajectory look like? And then what is your advice for other people who
are just looking to grow their career? And does that mean like being a manager means you
never write code anymore? I just know that I am in my heart,
an individual contributor, and I'm gonna sail off into the sunset that way.
It's not that I never want to supervise anyone in any capacity, but
and I've done some of that more in academia than at Posit. I just think the way I work,
I'd rather be doing the work than supervising the work. And I'm happy to accept
that comes with maybe a smaller sphere of influence. Or if I want to have influence,
it needs to happen in other ways by writing books or whatever. I'm totally happy with that.
And if it limits like how high I can go in some org chart, I'm also totally okay with that.
And so some of that must come from my personality. And some of it probably also comes
from this being kind of a third career that I know how I like to work. And that's in the IC mode.
And I'm totally comfortable accepting what are arguably the downsides of that,
but like are also the upsides of that. So I definitely know that that's not how everybody
thinks, thank goodness, because we do need people who have more desire to like increase their sphere
of influence by supervising people and taking a different track. I just know I'm not one of them.
Which is totally, totally valid. I see myself very much as an IC for life as well.
Jenny, thank you so much. This was amazing. There is so much thank youing happening in the chat
right now. It's amazing. Everybody, if you would like to save the chat, because a million links
were shared there, there's a three dots at the top right, where you can go and save the chat.
This hour always flies by. Jenny, thank you so much for being with us.
It's my pleasure.
This was very fun. I was a little nervous about how it would go, but far exceeded my expectations.
It was fun. And yeah, thank everyone to listening to me for an hour. It was great.
Wonderful. We were really excited to do so. Thank you, everybody, for coming.
Jenny, I think that you broke Hadley's attendance record. Congratulations.
Cool.
You can rub that in his face later.
I'm going to file that fact away.
Yep, there you go. Thank you, everybody. We will see you next week. And I would love to let you
know who we have joining us next week. It's Brian Chase, Vice President of Baseball Systems at the
Miami Marlins. So join us for some baseball conversation. We'll see you then. Bye, everybody.